hi I'm Bill Keith and this is my friend
mr. banjo
we're going to be with you for the next
hour or look into some of the fine
points about bluegrass banjo playing
okay for this first pattern the thumb
will be our timekeeper it alternates
regularly back and forth between the
third and the fifth string just like a
metronome so first let's get our right
hand going in that rolled pattern move
the first position of note starts out
with the index finger picking on the
second string down here just once then
the middle finger on the first string
now the thumb will come all the way down
to the second string and then the middle
finger picks the first again then you
finish up with four notes the thumb on
the fifth index on the second
middle on the first back to the thumb on
the fifth then the role starts over
again with the index finger so it goes
like this
the main thing to keep things
interesting and full of variety in
playing I got to depend on your ear
develop your own ideas try every avenue
in camp to learn about your instrument
and above all depend on your own here
and work melodies out that you hear in
your own head and stick with it doesn't
even though it might not come easy at
the satisfaction once you get there it
was impossible to a friend